DOCSP-35892: Quick Start docs (#2721)
jenssegers/laravel-mongodb: docs/quick-start/write-data.txt

.. _laravel-quick-start-write-data:

=====================
Write Data to MongoDB
=====================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

.. meta::
   :keywords: test connection, runnable, code example

.. procedure::
   :style: connected

   .. step:: Create the Function to Insert Data

>       Update the ``store()`` method ``MovieController.php``, located in
>       the ``app/Http/Controllers`` directory to insert request data
>       into the database as shown in the following code:

Reviewer: S: I think the current wording is slighly unclear, something like this might work:
```suggestion
      Navigate to the ``MovieController.php`` file located in
      the ``app/Http/Controllers`` directory. Then, update the ``store()`` method to insert request data
      into the database as shown in the following code:
```

Author: I can see how "navigate to" might be a step in an IDE in which you need to expand folder contents, but on the command line, there's no need to change directory to open a file for editing, so I chose to stay away from that wording.

Which part was unclear, and do you think this could be a good alternative (omits describing what they're accomplishing and focuses only on the actions they need to take to proceed):

"Replace the store() method in the MovieController.php file, located in the app/Http/Controllers" directory with the following code:"

Reviewer: Okay that makes sense. The main issue I had was the "update the `store()` method `MovieController.php`" part of the sentence since it seemed incomplete (but rewording to "Replace the store() method in the MovieController.php file" fixes that issue). I also think there's a missing comma after "directory,"  but otherwise the alternative wording you gave works for me!

      .. code-block:: php

         public function store(Request $request)
         {
             $data = $request->all();
             $movie = new Movie();
             $movie->fill($data);
             $movie->save();
         }

   .. step:: Add a Route for the Controller Function

>       Add the API route to map to the ``store()`` method in the
>       ``routes/api.php`` file.

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
      Add the following API route to map to the ``store()`` method in the
      ``routes/api.php`` file:
```

      .. code-block:: php

         use App\Http\Controllers\MovieController;

         // ...

         Route::resource('movies', MovieController::class)->only([
           'store'
         ]);

   .. step:: Update the Movie Model

>       Add the movie detail fields to the ``$fillable`` array
>       of the ``Movie`` model. After adding them, the ``Movie``
>       class at ``app/Models/Movie.php`` should contain the
>       following code:

Reviewer: S: I think the wording of this step can be more action-oriented:

```suggestion
      Navigate to the ``Movie`` class located at ``app/Models/Movie.php``. Then, add
      the following movie detail fields to the ``$fillable`` array of the ``Movie`` model:
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I think the current wording is action-oriented, but might be a little confusing since it states what the code should look like after updating it. This is a pattern used in other steps of the Quick Start, but I'll reword this to possibly make it easier to read.

      .. code-block:: php
         :emphasize-lines: 4

         class Movie extends Model
         {
            protected $connection = 'mongodb';
            protected $fillable = ['title', 'year', 'runtime', 'imdb', 'plot'];
         }

   .. step:: Post a Request to the API

>       Create a file called ``movie.json`` and insert the following data:

Reviewer: Q: should this code example include how to insert the data, rather than just the data itself, or are you assuming the user already knows how to insert?

Author: The insert is defined in "Create the Function to Store Data". I will change the title to "Create the Function to Insert Data" to make it more apparent for anyone that might be specifically looking for that word.
This step is chronologically after that one and describes how to perform a POST request with sample data so that the application calls that insert code.

      .. code-block:: json

         {
           "title": "The Laravel MongoDB Quick Start",
           "year": 2024,
           "runtime": 15,
           "imdb": {
             "rating": 9.5,
             "votes": 1
           },
           "plot": "This movie entry was created by running through the Laravel MongoDB Quick Start tutorial."
         }

      Send the JSON payload to the endpoint as a ``POST`` request by running
      the following command in your shell:

      .. code-block:: bash

         curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" --data @movie.json http://localhost:8000/api/movies

   .. step:: View the Data

>       Open ``http://127.0.0.1:8000/browse_movies`` in your web browser to view

Reviewer: S: nit, but since this is a URL and it's clickable in view-data.txt, could be helpful to also make this link clickable:

```suggestion
      Open http://127.0.0.1:8000/browse_movies in your web browser to view
```
